---
layout: page
title: Key Terms
permalink: /terms/
---
These terms establish a foundation for how  concepts and ideas for transgender, gender-questioning, and gender-diverse individuals are understood. They also define key video game terminology and the concept of performance.

**Gender and Identity**

<span style="color: #d44d7a;">**Gender Identity:**</span> a person’s internal sense of their gender (or lack thereof), which may or may not align with the sex they were coercively assigned at birth.

<span style="color: #d44d7a;">**Transgender:**</span> a person who does not identify as the sex that they were coercively assigned at birth.

<span style="color: #d44d7a;">**Cisgender:**</span>  a person who does identify as the sex that they were coercively assigned at birth. 

<span style="color: #d44d7a;">**Gender-Diverse:**</span> an umbrella label that encompasses transgender, intersex, and gender-questioning individuals. It also includes Indigenous-specific gender identities.

<span style="color: #d44d7a;">**Gender-Questioning:**</span> a person who is questioning or otherwise unsure of whether or not they identify with the sex that they were coercively assigned at birth.

<span style="color: #d44d7a;">**Gender Exploration:**</span> the process of learning about your gender identity through things including but not limited to appearance, presentation (in real life or online), “trying out” societal norms and visual indicators of gender and sex, etc. 

<span style="color: #d44d7a;">**Gender Dysphoria:**</span> an innate feeling of 'wrongness' spawned by a mismatch between  one's identity and the gender that they were coercively-assigned gender at birth that can trigger dissociation, depression, anxiety, and suicidality.

<span style="color: #d44d7a;">**Gender Performance:**</span> as spearheaded by Judith Butler in *Gender Trouble*, it is the act of staging, acting-out, and accomplishing (or attempting to accomplish) a concept, ideal, story, or belief of what a gender "should" look and act like based on hegemonic, cissexist, and misogynistic matrices of power. These performances are policed legislatively and socially.

**Video Games and Performance**

<span style="color: #d44d7a;">**Role-Playing Games:**</span> games, both digital and physical, that involve a player or a group of players pretending to be characters that they are not in a fictional setting and storyline.

<span style="color: #d44d7a;">**Single-Player Games:**</span> games that are played offline, where only one individual player is able to interact with, change, and "play" the game. The challenges faced by the player are generated by computer-controlled plot points, world-building, characters, and enemies. They are often more centered around story. 

<span style="color: #d44d7a;">**Multi-Player Games:**</span> games that are played with others, either online or alongside them in the same room, where multiple players are able to interact with, change, and "play" the game. This genre of video game typically incorporates some kind of competitive and/or interpersonal element. 

<span style="color: #d44d7a;">**Ludology:**</span> the study of playing games. Within the context of video game studies, this involves an analysis of gameplay systems that allow players to engage and interact with the games themselves; it's how players "play."
